The President:
This week, Congress passed
-- and I signed into law --
an essential economic package
that will help grow our economy,
spur businesses, and
jumpstart job creation.
Instead of a New Years Day tax
hike on the vast majority of
Americans, two million Americans
who've lost their jobs through
no fault of their own will now
know with certainty that they
won't lose their emergency
unemployment insurance at the
end of the month.
Eight million college students
who'd otherwise face a tuition
hike next semester will continue
having access to the American
Opportunity Tax Credit.
12 million families with 24
million children will benefit
from extensions of the Earned
Income Tax Credit and the Child
Tax Credit.
And millions of entrepreneurs
who've been waiting to invest in
their businesses will receive
new tax incentives to help them
expand, buy new equipment,
or make upgrades,
freeing up money to
hire new workers.
This package, which is so
important for our economy at
this pivotal time, was the
product of hard negotiations.
Like any negotiations, there was
give and take on both sides.
But I'm heartened by our ability
to come together to do what's
best for middle class
families across this country,
and for our economy as a whole.
Before Congress breaks
for the holidays,
I'm also hopeful we can come
together on another urgent
national priority
-- and that is,
the new START treaty that
will reduce the world's nuclear
arsenals and make
America more secure.
25 years ago, the Soviet Union
and the United States each had
about 25,000 nuclear weapons.
In the decades since, that
number has been reduced by over
70%, and we've had on-site
inspections of Russian nuclear facilities.
That progress would not have
been possible without strategic
arms control treaties.
During the past year, however,
our old treaty with Russia
expired, and without a new one,
we won't be able to verify
Russia's nuclear arsenal,
which would undercut President
Reagan's call to
trust, but verify,
when it comes to
nuclear weapons.
Without a new treaty, we'll risk
turning back the progress we've
made in our relationship
with Russia,
which is essential to enforce
strong sanctions against Iran,
secure vulnerable nuclear
materials from terrorists,
and resupply our
troops in Afghanistan.
And we'll risk undermining
American leadership not only on
nuclear proliferation, but a host of
other challenges around the world.
Ratifying a treaty like START
isn't about winning a victory
for an administration
or a political party.
It's about the safety and security
of the United States of America.
That's why this treaty is
supported by both Presidents
Bill Clinton and
George H.W. Bush.
That's why it's supported
by every living Republican
Secretary of State,
by our NATO allies,
and the leadership of the
United States military.
Indeed, the Vice-Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
General Hoss Cartwright, said
this week that the military
needs this treaty, and
they need it badly.
And that's why every President
since Ronald Reagan has pursued
a treaty like START, and every
one that has been reviewed by
the Senate has passed with
strong bipartisan support.
We've taken the time
to get this right.
The START treaty has now been
under review by the Senate for
over seven months.
It's gone through 18 hearings.
Nearly 1,000 questions have
been asked -- and answered.
Several Republican Senators have
come out in support of ratification.
Meanwhile, further
delay comes at a cost.
Every minute we drag our feet
is a minute that we have no
inspectors on the ground at
those Russian nuclear sites.
It's time to get this done.
It's time to show the same
spirit of common purpose on our
security that we showed
this week on our economy.
It's time to remember the old
saying that politics stops at
the water's edge.
That saying was coined
by a Republican Senator,
Arthur Vandenberg, who partnered
with a Democratic President,
Harry Truman, to pass landmark
national security measures at
the dawn of the Cold War.
Today, over 60 years later, when
we're threatened not only by
nuclear weapons, but an
array of other dangers,
that's a principle we
must continue to uphold.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.